Well, this is a media lab, so my {NS} talk about media, but, um, I'm going to talk about a particular kind media which is media for thinking, and I'm going to talk about a particular kind of thinking which is understanding systems. So, as an example of that, um, say you've got some system out in the world such as the planets going around the sun. You want to understand what's going on there, so you take some measurements, you look for patterns, you build a theoretical model, and that's the kind of thinking that we call science, a very important kind of thinking.
But, you can also go in the other direction. Instead of going from the system to the theory, you can start from theory and build your own system like a spacecraft to take you to a planet, and that's the kind of thinking that we call engineering. But, either way that you're going, whether you're going from system to a theory or from a theory to a system, understanding the system is really at the heart of what you're doing. So, both science and engineering or everywhere in between, a lot of it comes down to understanding systems, and media matter because media are thinking tools, right?
The representations that we use of the system are how we think about it. Our representations are, um, how we understand the system and what we understand about it, and so, if you want powerful new ways of understanding complex systems or if you want to build powerful new systems, we need powerful new representations and we need a powerful new medium in which we can create and work with those representations. So much of the way we work with systems today is derived from pencil and paper. From pencil and paper we can .... Even when we're working from a computer, we're still thinking in pencil and paper, and I think there's a incredible opportunity now to rethink how we think about systems. 
So, in this talk, I'm going to, um, show you a bunch of different examples of ... and different representations of different systems and to try to kind of give hints as to what's this new medium for working with systems might be. These examples are kind of from all over. There's like programming, circuit design and signal processing and this and that. If you're not familiar with one of these domains, doesn't matter. You don't need to know any of the technical details. All that matters is the representations. Every idea I show here can be pretty much applied to pretty much any, any domain.
So, I'm going to start off with taking a look at a scientific paper. This is a, um, paper on network theory that was published in Nature a little while ago. Very influential paper. Basically started an entire field of network theory and it kind of looks like a paper, right? Got a lot of these words and numbers and years and figure, and here's the table and there's another figure. I'm going to read a little bit to you from this paper, from the introduction, second paragraph where they are kind of setting things up. 
"The networks of interest to us have many vertices with sparse connections, but not so sparse that the graph is in danger of being disconnected. Specifically, we require that n much greater than k much greater than log n much greater than 1, where k much greater than log n guarantees that a random graph will be connected. In this regime, we find that L goes as n/2k much greater than 1 and C goes as 3/4 as p goes to 0" and this is incomprehensible. {LG} Um, and this was a very well-written paper. The, the authors are excellent writers, but what we have here is, the authors have a very rich picture in their heads and they're trying to compress that picture to transmit over a very low bandwidth channel, which is this stream of numbers and symbols, right? So, it's a very lossy decompression and we have to read on the other end trying to decompress this picture into their own head, and it doesn't work very well.
So, I re-designed this paper and my design looks a little bit like this. So, you can see words and pictures very tightly intertwined. A little bit of words, a little bit of pictures. I'll read a little bit to you from this part up here where they're establishing the algorithm that they used to generate these networks that they studied. We start with a ring of n vertices and here we see a ring of 12 vertices, where each vertex is connected to its k-nourished neighbors. Here we see a cable of 4, 4 connections like so. Now, they're all connected, which use the vertex and the edge to its nourished neighbor. There's the vertex. There's the edge. The 12 will re-appear, you reconnect the edge around them. They're reconnected. We repeat this process moving clockwise around the ring, like so.
So, instead of just describing the algorithm, it's depicting the state of the system at each set. So, this is what you normally would have to construct in your head. Here, the picture in your head is just illustrated. Here, they're, um, discussing some relationships, the regular lattice algorithm relating with n. We see L going linear with n. We see C the same consonant, the random network, L grows logarithmically. We see L growing logarithmically. We see C lying as a reciprocal relationship. When we read the word logarithmic, we don't have to reconstruct that relationship in our head. You can just see it. So, what I'm doing here, it's, it's really just a very simple trick. It's to understand the picture that's in the author's head and just reproduce that.  So, we're showing the state of the system. We're showing the behavior of the system as it goes through this algorithm. 
In my next example, I'm going to go to a completely different domain, but I'm gonna use kind of the same trick. So, this next example is, um, an example from circuit line. So, here's a circuit that I'm working on and I'm not done drawing it, so let me finish drawing it and ... that, and now the circuit works, although you can't actually see it working. You can't actually see anything. So, we kind of have the same problem as with that original paper is that the system is doing something and we can't see it doing anything.
If you were to build this circuit on a lab bench, you could at least taken a oscilloscope and probe around and see what's going on at this node, what's going on in that node, so you should at least be able to do that. So here, I'm showing the voltage of that particular node and it's simulating real time and now, we can see what it's doing, but you still can't understand the system.
In order to understand the system, it's not enough to just see one variable, one voltage. You have to see all the voltages. You have to see all the variables. You have to understand what's happening here, and here, and here, and here, and here, and here, and normally, you have to reconstruct on your head, but if I spread this out a little bit and switch to this representation, now you can see all the voltages across the entire circuit. I can scrub over them. I can see what's going on in this region. I can compare any two, the one that I'm mousing over right now, its shadow's overlaid on all the plots so I can compare them. I can adjust anything on the circuit such as resistor to resistor, turn it up and down, and see how the behavior changes. 
We're a little bit further towards understanding the behavior of the system, but it's still not enough. We're really only seeing half of the behavior now because in electronics, there's both voltage and current. In order to understand what the system's doing, you have to understand both these things. So, what I'm going to do is I'm going to, um, replace each of these components here such as the resistor with a plot of the current going through that resistor. So, right now, each of those blue blocks represents a component. This one right here is a resistor. This one's a capacitor. You can see what it is with that little badge, but instead just being a, um, dead schematic symbol, now it represents behavior, and so, I can, um, now at a glance see the entire behavior across the entire system. All the voltages, all currents, compare all of them. I can change anything about the system and see immediately how the behavior changes in response. 
Now, this representation here has all the same structural information as this. You still have the resistor hooked up to the capacitor, hooked up to the transistor. The difference is, now instead of it just being made out of these squiggly symbols that we're designed from pencil and paper, now it's made of live data, so we can see what the system's doing. So, this is a
